---
published: true
name: Khemani Gibson
title_affiliation: 'Orange Resident, PHD Candidate & Academic Dean of University of Orange'
image_url: images/KhemaniBio_2.jpg
---
Khemani Gibson was born in Kingston, jamaica before his parents migrated and settled in Orange, NJ in the early 1990s. Growing up, Khemani always loved storytelling and history ranging from thr Anansi stories his mother told him and his siblings to learning about notable black figures such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Billie Holiday, Jackie Robinson and others during black history month which he looked forward towards every school year. In high school, Khemani participated in the murmur oral history project where he interviewed orange residents and learned about the rich history that existed in his hometown. Prior to the project, Khemani viewed Orange negatively and couldn't wait to go to college and leave. However, the project taught Khemani the beauty of uncovering lost histories about people and place taken for granted. For this reason Khemani studied history at Drew University where he began to apply the lessons he learned from  murmur and his love for good storytelling to uncover the history of his own family's migratory history in Panama during the construction of the Panama Canal. He also served a consultant on the hidden treasures project working with students from the Humanities core at the scholars Academy as they also learned about the richness of Orange's history. Currently khemani is a history PhD Candidate at New York University where he studies the lives and communities of black immigrants in twentieth century Panama as well as a community organizer in Orange that seeks to increase youth civic and social participation in his hometown.
