---
name: 'Mindy Thompson Fullilove, MD'
published: true
title_affiliation: 'Psychiatrist, Author, & Professor of Urban Policy and Health, The New School'
image_url: images/MindyBio.jpg
---
Mindy Thompson Fullilove, MD, is a professor of urban policy and health at The New School.  Prior to joining The New School in 2016, she worked for 26 years as a research psychiatrist at New York State Psychiatric Institute and was a professor of clinical psychiatry and public health at Columbia University.  She was educated at Bryn Mawr College (AB, 1971) and Columbia University (MS, 1971; MD 1978).  She is a board certified psychiatrist, having received her training at New York Hospital-Westchester Division (1978-1981) and Montefiore Hospital (1981-1982).  She has conducted research on AIDS and other epidemics of poor communities, with a special interest in the relationship between the collapse of communities and decline in health.  From her research, she has published Root Shock: How Tearing Up City Neighborhoods Hurts America and What We Can Do About It, and The House of Joshua: Meditations on Family and Place.  She has also published numerous articles, book chapters, and monographs.  In December 2012 she was elected a Public Director on the board of the American Institute of Architects (AIA).  She has received many awards, including inclusion on “Best Doctors” lists, two honorary doctorates (Chatham College, 1999, and Bank Street College of Education, 2002) and elected an honorary member of the AIA.  Her most recent book, Urban Alchemy: Restoring Joy in America’s Sorted-Out Cities, was released by New Village Press in June 2013.
